-: Welcome back,
in this lecture we are going to understand about the probes
available in the Kubernetes.
So we have three types of probes available.
So one is liveness probe, readiness probe
and then startup probe.
So liveness probe.
So Kubelet uses liveness probe to know
when to restart a application container.
So in general if our application
has some deadlock appeared inside that
and then it is not able to progress more
and then if liveness probe is detected as failed,
then automatically the container will get restarted.
So whenever we have application failure situations
and then if liveness probe fails,
it will restart the container so that again,
fresher instance of the container will start up
and then start taking the traffic.
So liveness probe will be used for that reason.
So now the name here readiness probe
states that Kubelet, Kubelet uses readiness probes to know
when a container is ready to accept the traffic.
So until and unless the readiness probe is succeeded,
so we will not allow that container to get the traffic.
In simple terms whenever we start or deploy our application.
So we will wait for the settings provided in readiness probe
to succeed and once it succeeded then only it will allow
that traffic to that respective container.
So when a part is not ready,
it is removed from the service load balancer
based on the readiness probe signal.
So you, if the part is not ready,
then ideally it cannot be go
and then add to the service load balances right?
So in that cases, readiness probes will be very much helpful
in other terms, like you have a elastic load balancer
with application load balancer or any other load balancer,
classic load balancer or whatever the load balancer may be.
So this respective part
if it need to go and then register inside the pod
then readiness probes should be successful.
In understanding and then handling those type of signals
readiness probes will be helpful as an example
and next is the startup probe.
So kubelet uses startup probes to know
when a container application has started.
So ideally when a container application has started
why the startup probe should know means,
it's like why the kubelets should know
when the container application has started.
So there will be several reasons for that, okay.
So firstly, whenever we configure the start-up probe
it automatically disables the liveness
and then readiness probe
until the startup probe is successful.
That is one thing to avoid any interference
with the app startup and second thing is
this can be used to adopt liveness checks
on slow starting containers, avoiding them getting killed
by the kubelet before they are up and running.
So if sufficient amount of time
it already took to start the container,
usually the default time-outs of pods
and then Kubernetes will kick in
and then it will go into an infinite loop
of terminating and then restarting.
So to avoid such situations
for the slow starting containers, application containers,
so we can use the start-up probe.
An important thing here is
whenever the start probe is in action
until and unless it succeeds,
it is going to disable the liveness and readiness probes,
even they are defined in our manifest deployment, manifest.
And next thing here is, options to define probes.
So there are three options to define the probes.
It's like in three ways we can define the probes.
Either it is a liveness probe or readiness probe
or start-up probe.
So one is check using commands.
So we'll have shell scripts, right?
So we can create using shell that, net cat high fund Z
localist 8, 0, 9, 5 to check
whether that respective localist
with that port is available or not, or any other cat command
or whatever the command, whatever we want to use
to ensure that our application is up.
So we can use those shell commands, that is one way.
And the second way is using the HTTP get request.
So example like you have a health status space in,
page in your application and when your application is up
then you can provide that health status page link
so that using HTTP get, it will go ahead
and then check that respective page
is available for us or not.
Or using plain PCP socket connection, which is nothing,
but whether the port 8, 0, 9, 5 is listening
and then up and running or not.
So in these three options we can define our probes.
Whatever is applicable to whatever the probe
in our respective application situation, okay.
So example readiness probe,
I want to define using hash (indistinct)
I will be fine with that,
or in my liveness probe,
I want to identify like in such a way
that using the NC hyphen Z
and then localist 8, 0, 9, 5, so I'll assign for this.
Anything anywhere you can use,
but the way how you want to define it
depends on the your application context
and then how you have defined your core application, okay.
So no restrictions on using which to which okay?
So all three can be used for all three types of probes.
So in our next lecture
we will focus on creating the liveness
and then readiness probes
for our user management microservice and then test it now.
Okay, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.